
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Full-text_search
https://www.sqlite.org/fts5.html
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/224714/what-is-full-text-search-vs-like
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/search/full-text-search?view=sql-server-ver16
https://www.mongodb.com/basics/full-text-search
https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/textsearch.html


I just listened to a song titled "Google doesn't work anymore."
What would be good to have in it's place is something that allows people to find information they need easily and quickly.

However, one of the main issues with this is 
1. advertising
2. spam avoidance
Both of the above information sent to users (that they don't want sent to them)
which creates a "Lossy" information channel. Essentially, there's information they want to see which constitutes
a desired signal of information, which has some intrinsic density.
This information is transmitted to the person from a source of information.
maximal learning should occur when the minimum information is transmitted from source to destination.
unneccesary or unwanted information lowers the transmission density, and is therefore undesired.

funding approaches:
1. Donations
2. Advertising (see above)
    This comes in multiple forms (third party from google, or via purchases are less relevent than those from first parties)
3. Direct funding (recipient pays for the information)
4. Sponsorships which don't require advertising
5. subsidies
  a. varying by source (i.e. merchandise sales, where the content improves turnover through a storefront)
      The information could also be a lead in for services, such as a consulting or legal practice
      or a taste of a class, or entertainment content, and provided to "hook" people and induce direct funding.

Donations may or may not be robust, and relies on the goodwill of people to fund an organization.
Advertising for donations is a thing, and can be very effective at improving donation streams.
Advertisements are generally an effective way to increase sales, or producers wouldn't use them.

One solution to this would be to decentralize the networking applications
  (searching an index of websites for the information you want (i.e. web-search)
   searching for videos (i.e. youtube or tiktok alternative like peertube/odyssy or lbry/mediagoblin etc...)
   )

One difficulty here is getting content into the service.
This might require monetary incentives.
Due to network effects, established players tend to have a good amount of implied trust/momentum, so they'll take a while to peter out or adapt.

However, decentralized solutions are either consumer resource driven (the clients act as servers)
or have a funding issue (servers are expensive, require administrators, and need time and money to operate)
Solving this and maintaining information density at the same time requires an approach that involves one of sponsorship, direct funding, donations, or subsidies.
Thus, it might be desirable to couple the service with a payment model to handle the economics.
(i.e. a tuple like (client, server, content_identifier, price, assent))

Where the server posts a price for the content, and refuses service if not compensated. (via either Dollars or bitcoin, perhaps? This could be a list of acceptable models)
Then, there needs to be some analog to full-text search which allows searches to find the content most relevant to them.
For a person to fund the content most similiar to what they want, the content itself should be addressable.

This type of classification scheme might be well suited to neural nets, I'm not an expert, but apparently they can be designed to label typed information, given enough data.
kinda like a neural net concordance. The topic is inherently complicated.

Fortunately, there's a number of techniques, and a large number of projects which might be able to do this well.

